- [Narrator] Java KeyStores are an integral way
of transmitting secure files across an enterprise
when dealing with Java programs.
In addition, KeyStores and TrustStores
are very important when dealing
with self signed infrastructure
on an internal enterprise based network.
We're gonna talk a little bit about how
to leverage Java KeyStores in your applications
in order to load keys.
So, let's first start by talking about
what is a KeyStore?
Essentially a KeyStore is nothing more
than a database or a collection of values.
It's used to store secrets in small doses.
Now, the reason that I say small doses
is I wouldn't put a whole lot of secrets
into an individual KeyStore
unless you absolutely have to.
If you actually wanna load secrets into an application
you should look at a tool like HashiCorp Vault
or Thycotic Secret Server in order
to get secrets into your application,
but in small bits and pieces
like private keys or certificates
KeyStores are a great way to do it.
Some of things that you can store,
as I've alluded to,
are public keys, PKI pairs, or symmetric shared keys.
Now, when you build a KeyStore
it's usually actually built using the Java keytool, usually.
It can however be built in code,
and building it in code can either save it on disk
or run it in memory.
Now, this is often very useful
when scripting DevOps type activities,
especially as I alluded to when using
internally signed certificates.
By being able to generate a KeyStore dynamically
with a signed certificate
that is signed by your internal CA
you can actually push those out to applications,
so that they are automatically trusted
when they come up if you do KeyStores right
and you spend a little time understanding
the various formats and structures of KeyStores.
Now, the JCA KeyStore object
is not the traditional KeyStore per se
that we deal with.
It's actually a class for interacting
with the Java KeyStore file itself.
Now, I alluded earlier that it can be purely in memory
or it can be on disk.
You can leverage various file types
like PKS, or P12 files,
or with other libraries like Bouncy Castle
you can expand that list even further.
Before we jump into code however,
we do need to talk about a little difference
in terminology between a TrustStore and a KeyStore.
Now, in reality a TrustStore is a KeyStore.
It is a type of a Java KeyStore.
It is usually used for certificates from a CA.
Now, it can contain certificates signed
by a public CA like DigiSign,
or it can contain certificates signed
by your private CA in your enterprise,
and this is really an example of how
we would get an application on start up
to trust the certificates when it's making web service calls
to other systems within your enterprise.
We're not gonna get too deep into that,
but just know that the CA search file
that shifts with Java is really a trustworthy,
it can be manipulated the same way
that we do with any other KeyStore in Java.